
R Challenge Questions for Experienced Coders

A Riddle and Histogram
Most people think they are better than average drivers.
This is perfectly reasonable if you are literal about the word ‘average’.
Simulate a distribution that explains this perception.
Plot a histogram using the hist function.
Use the function abline to mark the average.

A Classic Interview Question
Answer this classic interview question:
Fizz buzz
"Write a program that prints the numbers from 1 to 100. But for multiples of three print “Fizz” instead of the number and for the multiples of five print “Buzz”. For numbers which are multiples of both three and five print “FizzBuzz”."
http://wiki.c2.com/?FizzBuzzTest

Factorial functions
Code up a factorial using a loop.
Code up a factorial using a recursive function.

Sorting
Create a data frame with random values for x and y.  Sort the data by x.
Use the function ‘order’
Create your own version of merge sort.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merge_sort

Multidimensional Arrays
A geographic data set D is arranged as follows
x and y are latitude and longitude recorded each second.
	drivers 1 to 5
	trips 1 to 20
	x 1 to 100
	y 1 to 100

1 Declare a multidimensional array and populate it with random data.
2 Write a function that receives ranges and traverses the array in order to retrieve values.
3 Create another function that returns the distance travelled by way of converting the distances using Pythagorean theorem (x^2 + y^2 = distance^2).
4 Create another version of the function that lets you pass any function, such as the Pythagorean Theorem, and applies the passed function to the data range.

Splits
Create a data frame with random values for x and y.
Loop through x and for each value of x split the y data set into two groups (each corresponding the split by x).
That is, break the set of y values in y's where x is less than x0 and y's where x is greater than x0.
Calculate the variances of each of the two groups and sum them.
Find the value x where the sum of the variances is minimal.

Manual F Distribution
Simulate  two different sized data sets with standard normal distributions.
Calculate the variance of both those normal distributions.
Calculate the ratio of the two variances.
Simulate two more data sets of the same size of the first two but of any kind of distribution.
Repeat the steps performed for the first pair and compare the variance ratios.

Overlapping Histograms
Create a function that plots 2 overlapping histograms
https://www.r-bloggers.com/overlapping-histogram-in-r/

Numerical Integration (for math people)
Study the different versions of referring to statistical distributions in R.
http://www.stat.umn.edu/geyer/old/5101/rlook.html
Code up a numerical integration from 0 to 2 standard deviations

Find Zeros (for math people)
Code up Newton’s Method for the function f(x) = x^2
Find the minimum of that function.

Matrix Algebra (for math people)
Declare an n by n matrix with random values.
Write a function the matrix multiplies the matrix by itself.
Create a manual version of the function that loops through each row and column vector and takes inner products in order to achieve the matrix multiplication.